contributing my part.
Bluetooth 
	The Bluetooth technology discussed here aims at so-called ad-hoc piconets, which are local area networks with a very limited coverage and without the need for an infrastructure. This is a different type of network is needed to connect different small devices in close proximity (about 10 m) without expensive wiring or the need for a wireless infrastructure (Bisdikian, 1998). The envisaged gross data rate is 1 Mbit/s, asynchronous (data) and synchronous (voice) services should be available. Many of today’s devices offer an infra red data association (IrDA) interface with transmission rates of, e.g., 115 kbit/s or 4 Mbit/s. There are various problems with
IrDA, Its very limited range (typically 2 m for built-in interfaces), the need for a line-of-sight between the interfaces, and, it is usually limited to two participants, i.e., only point-to-point connections are supported.
 History 
The history of Bluetooth starts in the tenth century, when Harald Gormsen, King of Denmark (son of Gorm), erected a rune stone in Jelling, Denmark, in memory of his parents. The stone has three sides with elaborate carvings. One side shows a picture of Christ, as Harald did not only unite Norway and Denmark, but also brought Christianity to Scandinavia. Harald had the common epithet of ‘Blåtand’, meaning that he had a rather dark complexion (not a blue tooth). It took a thousand years before the Swedish IT-company Ericsson initiated some studies in 1994 around a so-called multi-communicator link (Haartsen, 1998). The project was renamed (because a friend of the designers liked the Vikings) and Bluetooth was born. In spring 1998 five companies (Ericsson, Intel, IBM, Nokia, Toshiba) founded the Bluetooth consortium with the goal of developing a single-chip, low-cost, radio-based wireless network technology. Many other companies and research institutions joined the special interest group around Bluetooth (2002), whose goal was the development of mobile phones, laptops, notebooks, headsets etc. including Bluetooth technology, by the end of 1999.

Following five criteria-
	At the same time the Bluetooth development started, a study group within IEEE 802.11 discussed wireless personal area networks (WPAN) under the following five criteria:
● Market potential: How many applications, devices, vendors, customers are available for a certain technology?
● Compatibility: Compatibility with IEEE 802.
● Distinct identity: Originally, the study group did not want to establish a second 802.11 standard. However, topics such as, low cost, low power, or small form factor are not addressed in the 802.11 standard.
● Technical feasibility: Prototypes are necessary for further discussion, so the study group would not rely on paper work.
● Economic feasibility: Everything developed within this group should be cheaper than other solutions and allow for high-volume production.
Architecture
	Like IEEE 802.11b, Bluetooth operates in the 2.4 GHz ISM band. However, MAC, physical layer and the offered services are completely different. After presenting the overall architecture of Bluetooth and its specialty, the piconets, the following sections explain all protocol layers and components in more detail.
Networking
	A very important term in the context of Bluetooth is a piconet. A piconet is a collection of Bluetooth devices which are synchronized to the same hopping sequence. Figure 7.41 shows a collection of devices with different roles. One device in the piconet can act as master (M), all other devices connected to the

 

					
master must act as slaves (S). The master determines the hopping pattern in the piconet and the slaves have to synchronize to this pattern. Each piconet has a unique hopping pattern. If a device wants to participate it has to synchronize to this. Two additional types of devices are shown: parked devices (P) can not actively participate in the piconet (i.e., they do not have a connection), but are known and can be reactivated within some milliseconds (see section 7.5.5).
Devices in stand-by (SB) do not participate in the piconet. Each piconet has exactly one master and up to seven simultaneous slaves. More than 200 devices can be parked. The reason for the upper limit of eight active devices, is the 3-bit address used in Bluetooth. If a parked device wants to communicate and there are already seven active slaves, one slave has to switch to park mode to allow the parked device to switch to active mode.
If a device wants to participate in more than one piconet, it has to synchronize
to the hopping sequence of the piconet it wants to take part in. If a
device acts as slave in one piconet, it simply starts to synchronize with the hopping
sequence of the piconet it wants to join. After synchronization, it acts as a slave in this piconet and no longer participates in its former piconet. To enable synchronization, a slave has to know the identity of the master that determines the hopping sequence of a piconet. Before leaving one piconet, a slave informs the current master that it will be unavailable for a certain amount of time. The remaining devices in the piconet continue to communicate as usual.
 
A master can also leave its piconet and act as a slave in another piconet. It is clearly not possible for a master of one piconet to act as the master of another piconet as this would lead to identical behavior (both would have the same hopping sequence, which is determined by the master per definition). As soon as a master leaves a piconet, all traffic within this piconet is suspended until the master returns. Communication between different piconets takes place by devices jumping back and forth between theses nets. If this is done periodically, for instance, isochronous data streams can be forwarded from one piconet to another.However, scatternets are not yet supported by all devices. 
